day09/README.md, before:

# [Day 09](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/9)

## Puzzle 01

The input is 20,000 single digit numbers.  I would need at most 200KB to create
a block map.  It's worth a try and runs fast enough.  I could have tracked each
group of consecutive blocks instead, but I didn't feel the added complexity was
worth it, yet.

## Puzzle 02

First solution took **5m14s**.  It moved backwards from the last file and looked
for a free space large enough to accommodate it.  **O(n<sup>2</sup>)** style.

On top of that, a file might get visited more than once.  This creates extra
work, but does not change the result.  If the file didn't fit anywhere left of
here before, it still won't fit anywhere left of here now.

One quick optimization is to stop looking when the file starts before the first
free block, and to stop looking for free space past where the file starts.  It
is still O(n<sup>2</sup>) but runs in about **1m40s**.  But my two attempts to
make it happen failed to give the correct checksum with the input data.  The
sample was fine, but something in the real inputs is throwing me off.

A better solution would be to track sequences of identical blocks.  This would
make finding free space for a file much faster, but would require splitting a
sequence of free space into a sequence for a file and a possibly empty sequence
of free space whenever we move a file.

Commit message:

Optimize Day 09 Puzzle 2
Went from over 5 minutes to less than 6 seconds.

day09/README.md, after:

# [Day 09](https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/9)

## Puzzle 01

The input is 20,000 single digit numbers.  I would need at most 200KB to create
a block map.  It's worth a try and runs fast enough.  I could have tracked each
group of consecutive blocks instead, but I didn't feel the added complexity was
worth it, yet.

## Puzzle 02

First solution ([puzzle2_slow.rb](puzzle2_slow.rb)) took **5m14s**.  It moved
backwards from the last file and looked for a free space large enough to
accommodate it.  **O(n<sup>2</sup>)** style.

On top of that, a file might get visited more than once.  This creates extra
work, but does not change the result.  If the file didn't fit anywhere left of
here before, it still won't fit anywhere left of here now.

One quick optimization is to stop looking when the file starts before the first
free block, and to stop looking for free space past where the file starts.  It
is still O(n<sup>2</sup>) but runs in about **1m40s**.  But my two attempts to
make it happen failed to give the correct checksum with the input data.  The
sample was fine, but something in the real inputs is throwing me off.

A better solution ([puzzle2_fast.rb](puzzle2_fast.rb)) is to track sequences of
identical blocks.  This makes finding free space for a file much faster, but
requires splitting a sequence of free space into a sequence for a file and a
possibly empty sequence of free space whenever we move a file.  This has a
complexity closer to **O(n)** and runs in **6s**.
